

                WinRAR - What's new in the latest version


   Version 3.80

   1. Added support for ZIP archives containing Unicode file names
      in UTF-8 format. When creating ZIP archive, WinRAR stores 
      names in Unicode only if they cannot be stored correctly using 
      the current single byte character set.

   2. Added decompression support for WinZip AES encrypted ZIP archives.

   3. Improved Unicode support for RAR and ZIP archive names.

   4. "Ask before overwrite" and "Skip existing files" update modes
      are now available in archiving dialog. They allow to specify
      WinRAR behavior when updating already existing files in archive.
      Unlike already available "Fresh existing files only" and
      "Add and update files", these new modes ignore file date
      and compare only file names.

      Command line equivalents of these modes are:

      a) switch -o enables "Ask before overwrite" archiving mode;

      b) switch -o- enables "Skip existing files" archiving mode;

      c) switch -o+ enables "Overwrite all" mode (default for archiving).

   5. New "Add to context menu" option in "Profile parameters" dialog.
      If this option is on, the profile name will be displayed in Explorer
      context menus allowing to activate a profile from context menu. 

   6. New -cp<profile name> switch allows to select a compression profile
      in command line mode. It is supported only by GUI WinRAR.exe,
      not by rar.exe.

   7. New "Options" page of archiving dialog contains the group of
      settings modifying the behavior of "Delete files after archiving"
      option from "General" page:

      a) Delete files. Delete files normally like in previous WinRAR
         versions.

      b) Move files to Recycle Bin. Deleted files are placed to
         Recycle Bin.

         Command line equivalent of this option is -dr switch.

      c) Wipe files. Before deleting file data are overwritten by
         zero bytes to prevent recovery of deleted files.

         Command line equivalent of this option is -dw switch.

      All these options have an effect only if "Delete files
      after archiving" is on. You can enable any of these options
      in the default compression profile to change the default
      behavior of "Delete files after archiving".

   8. WinRAR "Extraction path and options" dialog is now resizable.
      You can use the mouse to drag its border to the desired size 
      and provide more space for folder tree pane. WinRAR will store
      new dimensions of this dialog.

   9. New "Update" SFX script command and "Update mode" group
      of options in "Update" page of "Advanced SFX options" dialog.
      These command and options allow to check time and implement
      file time based updating;

  10. SFX script "Shortcut" command and "Add shortcut..." command
      in "Advanced SFX options" dialog now allow to specify
      an icon file containing an icon associated with shortcut.

  11. New "Wipe temporary files" option in "Settings/Security" dialog
      provides more secure, though slower, way to delete temporary
      WinRAR files.

  12. WinRAR and RAR display the total progress bar when unpacking
      a multivolume RAR archive if all volumes are present
      in the same folder.

  13. WinRAR and RAR automatically expand names of environment
      variables in list files. For example, a list file can contain
      lines like:

        %windir%\*.exe
        %USERPROFILE%\Desktop

      This feature is available only in Windows RAR version.

  14. Added support of TAR archives with non-zero "extra field" data.
      
  15. Added support of TAR archives, which does not contain
      the end of archive entry consisting of 512 zero bytes.

  16. Improved Unicode support when dragging files from WinRAR window.

  17. Shift+Tab key combination can be used in main WinRAR window to 
      switch the input focus between interface elements (files, comment, 
      tree, address) in reverse order. In previous versions Shift+Tab 
      used the same order as Tab.

  18. Corrected a possible WinRAR crash when opening truncated 
      UDF ISO files.


   Version 3.71

   1. Archive names in rar.log error log file always include
      the full path.

   2. WinRAR tray icon is compatible with high DPI display modes.

   3. If you modified a file in archive with encrypted names using
      an external editor, WinRAR will not ask for archive password again
      when prompting to update a file. It will use a password which
      you entered when opening an archive,

   4. Bugs fixed:

      a) switch -tl and "Set archive time to latest file time" option
         could fail in previous version. Sometimes they set archive time
         to current system time instead of latest file time;

      b) if -ag switch mask contained archive number, month and minute
         characters, WinRAR placed 'I' character instead of minute value
         into generated archive name for archive numbers exceeding 1;

      c) high ASCII names in ISO files using ISO 9660 format without
         Joliet format extension were displayed incorrectly;

      d) WinRAR could crash when decompressing some of corrupt RAR archives;

      e) if "Turn PC off when done" option was set in "Convert archives"
         command, WinRAR turned PC off after converting the first archive
         in selected group instead of after converting the entire group;

      f) if user specified a non-existent destination path in SFX archive
         in Vista, SFX could enter into infinite "create new SFX window"
         loop;

      g) WinRAR could fail to unpack an individual file from subfolder
         of ACE archive using the drag and drop.


   Version 3.70

   1. Numerous Windows Vista compatibility changes:

      a) help format changed from old HLP to newer HTML based CHM;

      b) GUI self-extracting modules attempt to request for
         administrator permissions if they cannot create destination
         folder under current user account;

      c) Log file rar.log and WinRAR theme files are stored
         in %APPDATA%\WinRAR folder instead of WinRAR program files folder.

         Exported settings file settings.reg is also stored
         in %APPDATA%\WinRAR folder by default, but it is possible to
         select another folder in "Save WinRAR settings" and "Load WinRAR
         settings" dialogs.

         WinRAR searches for registration key and settings.reg
         both in its program files folder and in %APPDATA%\WinRAR;

         It is possible to set the string value "AppData" in Registry key
         HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\WinRAR\Paths to override the default
         %appdata%\WinRAR path for WinRAR settings.

         For example, if you wish to store theme files in WinRAR folder,
         set this value to "c:\Program Files\WinRAR".

      d) Vista compatibility changes in WinRAR shell integration;

      e) New "Request administrative access" option in "Advanced" page
         of "Advanced SFX options" allows to create SFX archive,
         which will request the administrative access when started
         in Windows Vista.

         Command line equivalent of this option is -iadm switch.

   2. Added support for ISO 13346 (UDF) file format. This format
      is frequently used in ISO images of DVD disks.

   3. Added Unicode support for ISO 9660 files, so WinRAR should
      handle non-English file names in .iso files better.

   4. Design changes in window displaying archiving and extraction
      progress:

      a) it provides more space for file names, allowing lengthy names;

      b) it displays the current archive name in separate line,
         allowing much longer archive names than before;

      c) when archiving, it displays the current compression ratio
         in separate line;

      d) it can use both standard Windows and classic WinRAR progress bars.
         Turn on "Windows progress bars" option in WinRAR "Settings/General"
         dialog to use standard progress bars. By default this option is
         on if some Windows visual style is active and off if Windows Classic
         theme is selected.

         Windows progress bars are two color only, so they do not indicate
         the current compression ratio. But now the ratio is displayed
         in separate line;

      e) "Mode..." button moved to bottom of window.

   5. GUI self-extracting modules support following command line
      switches:

      -d<path>     set the destination path
      -p<pwd>      specify a password
      -s           silent mode, hide all
      -s1          same as -s
      -s2          silent mode, hide start dialog
      -sp<par>     specify parameters for setup program

   6. GUI self-extracting modules do not pass the entire command line
      to setup program like they did in previous versions.
      If you need to get access to entire command line of SFX archive,
      parse sfxcmd environment variable which contains this command line.

   7. New switch -sc<charset>[objects] allowing to select character
      sets for archive comments and list files. It replaces -fcu switch
      introduced in RAR 3.60, which was removed from list of supported
      switches. Now you need to specify -scuc instead of -fcu to use
      Unicode comments. Unlike -fcu, -sc also supports OEM and ANSI charset.

   8. New "Save archive copy as..." command in "File" menu.
      This command may be useful if you opened an archive from Internet
      directly in WinRAR and then decided to save it on local disk.

   9. "Word wrap" command added to "View" menu of WinRAR internal viewer,
      so you can change the wrapping mode of already opened viewer window.

      State of this option is not stored between viewing sessions.
      If you need to change the default word wrap mode, use WinRAR
      "Settings/Viewer" dialog.

  10. Buttons "Up" and "Down" added to "Organize profiles" dialog.
      Using these buttons you can change position of selected profile
      in the list.

  11. Operation progress is displayed when adding the recovery record.

  12. If WinRAR is minimized to tray and mouse is over its icon,
      WinRAR diplays a message about the current operation progress.
      In previous versions it included only percent done, now it also
      contains the time left information.

  13. Console RAR displays "Calculating the control sum" message
      when calculating CRC32 control sum for newly created RAR volume.
      Previous versions also calculated the volume control sum,
      but did it silently.

  14. Archives history list in "File" menu allows Unicode names,
      providing more reliable support for non-English archive names.

  15. Stack overflow vulnerability has been corrected in password
      processing module of console RAR and UnRAR. GUI WinRAR is not
      affected. We are thankful to the iDEFENSE LABS for reporting this bug.
